<!--*************************************************-->
<!-- Page Mako function extensions                   -->
<!--*************************************************-->
<%namespace file="/master/master.mako" import="*"/>

<!--*************************************************-->
<!-- Master template                                 -->
<!--*************************************************-->
<%inherit file="/master/master.xhtml"/>


<!--*************************************************-->
<!-- Page XHTML Declaration                          -->
<!--*************************************************-->

<div id="site-home-main-overview-content">
    <div class="section-header">
        What is ES-DOC ?
    </div>
    <div class="section-content">
        <p>
            ES-DOC stands for <b>Earth System - Documentation</b>.  It's goal is to provide high quality software tools and services in order to support the distribution of earth science documentation.
        </p>
    </div>

    <div class="section-header">
        What is the CIM ?
    </div>
    <div class="section-content">
        <p>
            The main objectives of the <a href="http://metafortrac.badc.rl.ac.uk/trac" rel="external">METAFOR</a> project were to develop and promulgate an ipso-facto standard for describing climate models and associated data.
            This standard has been formalized and named the <b>Common Information Model</b> (CIM).
            The benefits of adopting a internationally recognized information standard such as the CIM are many:
        </p>
        <p style="margin-top: 4px;">
            <ul>
                <li>Institutes can share information regarding models, experiments, simulations, data, grids ... etc, in a standardized format;</li>
                <li>Documentation tools can render CIM compliant information in multiple formats such as html, pdf ...etc;</li>
                <li>Inter-operability issues can be resolved by adapting existing software to leverage the CIM;</li>
                <li>Search tools can provide a unified metadata access by ingesting CIM compliant metadata from multiple sources;</li>
                <li>Differencing engines can attempt to compare climate models.</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
    </div>


    <div class="section-header">
        What is the CIM Eco-System ?
    </div>
    <div class="section-content">
        <p>
            Built ontop of the CIM standard are a set of community developed tools & web services collectively referred to as the CIM eco-system.
            Such an eco-system is essential to encouraging adoption of the CIM by the global climate modelling community.
        </p>
    </div>

    <div class="section-header">
        What is the CIM API ?
    </div>
    <div class="section-content">
        <p>
            The CIM API is a robust set of publicly available web-services.  The API is designed to support an array of use cases such as persistence, search, reporting, & visualisation.  It forms the key infrastructure at the heart of the CIM eco-system.
        </p>
    </div>

</div>

